# Advent of Code 2024 ~ One Programming Language A Day Does _Not_ Keep The Doctor Away

## Making New Traditions
Whelp~ It's that time of the year again! 

A time for crowded shopping centers and unrelenting marketing campaigns based around holiday cheer. A time when the tempurature goes down but not as much as it used to. A time for being together with loved ones and showing people that you care about them. 

It's... _the holidays after black friday_.

In recent years my holiday tradition has been expanded to include [Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/): A themed collection of 50 programming challenges, two per day starting on December 1st and lasting until Christmas. 

The challenges are loosely based around a narrative that usually involves the reader helping santa's elves or something. I'll be honest I mostly go straight to the bottom where the problem statement lies. The challenges can range in difficulty but tend to include classical computer science problems like ones you might see in [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/). The difference being that there is no time limit in AoC. Your program can run for as long as it takes, no matter how inefficient the algorithm is. I have yet to complete all of the challenges for AoC. Here's why.

A few years ago, back in 2020, I was in college being exposed to many new and exciting programing languages. While most of my class work was done in `C++` or `C`, I was looking to learn more about languages like `Prolog` or `Haskell`. Functional 
programming was (and still is) still a very new concept to me. 

I hear about AoC, think this is great way to learn about functional programming because the easiest way to learn is by doing. 

I took that idea about learning a little too far... After attempting the first challenge in `Haskell`, I wanted to try a different language for the next one. This quickly became a personal fixation on making sure I used a different programming language for each day.

Advent of Code [2020](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2020) was my introduction to the challenge. If you follow the link you'll see that I only got 10 days in, and the 10th was completed on January 1st so It seems like I lost interest very quickly. In `2021` I wanted to try again. I got 5 challenges done. Total. Thats 2 1/2 days. There is no github repository to speak of. 

For Advent of Code [2022](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2022) I tried again to the same result. 10 days done and no more. In `2023` I didn't try at all, but likely due to the insane workload I had taken on at the time.

This year, [2024](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2022), I decided to go all in. I have more time now. It seems I am at the same enpasse. 10 down, 15 to go. I am determined to make it to all 25 days this year.

## The 25 Days of Psychological Damage
To keep me motivated, I am going to write about my experiences with each language and how its design affected my solution to the problem.

### Day 1: C++
`C++` isn't _ever_ my first choice for anything. Nor is it my second. or third. In fact, I have a seemingly illogical distaste for the language, despite my endless love for `C`. 

`C++` itself is a fully featured "modern version" of `C`. Although it's relation to C is direct, it shares little from `C`'s historical design philosophy.

An odd bit I noticed while working on this was [cppreference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/) now has ads? Now I have no reason to use the official docs over, say, w3schools. 

Regardless, the language lended itself greatly to finding the solutions. The rich library of data structures keep the line count low because we don't need to implement as many algorithms. 

    :::c++
    // sorting in place is nice
    std::sort(ls.begin(), ls.end());
    std::sort(rs.begin(), rs.end());

    // sets are easy to use in C++
    for (i = 0; i < ls.size(); i++) {
        // counts is a hash set
        // counts.count() tells us if the entry exists
        // in the set
        if (counts.count(rs[i]) == 0) 
            counts[rs[i]] = 1;
        else
            counts[rs[i]]++;
        part1 += abs(ls[i] - rs[i]); 
    }

The syntax is classic `C` if you want, but more idiomatic `C++` tends to be much more wordy, with namespaces and templating it can be intimidating for even `C` programmers to get into `C++`. note I'm not `using namespace std` so I need to supply the `std::` namespace for standard library functions.

### Day 2: Lua

I have done more days but this is where I stop for now. Hopefully will continue this later.

You can find the GitHub repository at [https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2024](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2024)