# Advent of Code 2024 - A Programming Language A Day Does _Not_ Keep The Doctor Away

## New Traditions
Whelp~ It's that time of the year again! 

In recent times my holiday traditions have been expanded to include [Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/): A themed collection of 50 programming challenges. Thats two challenges per day from December 1st until Christmas. 

The challenges are loosely based around a story that usually involves the reader helping santa's elves or something. I'll be honest I mostly go straight to the bottom where the problem statement lies. The challenges can range in difficulty but tend to include classical computer science problems like ones you might see on [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/).

## Making it More Challenging For No Reason
I first discovered Advent of Code in college around the same time I learned about [functional programming](https://www.turing.com/kb/introduction-to-functional-programming). After attempting the first challenge in `Haskell`, I wanted to try a different language for the next one. This quickly became a personal fixation on making sure I used a different programming language for each day. I have yet to complete an Advent of Code all the way through because of this

Advent of Code [2020](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2020) was my introduction to the challenge. If you follow the link you'll see that I only got 10 days in, and the 10th was completed on January 1st so It seems like I lost interest very quickly. In `2021` I wanted to try again. I got 5 challenges done. Total. Thats 2 1/2 days. There is no github repository to speak of. 

For Advent of Code [2022](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2022) I tried again to the same result. 10 days done and no more. In `2023` I didn't try at all, but likely due to the insane workload I had taken on at the time.

This year, [2024](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2024), I decided to go all in. I have more time now. It seems I am at the same enpasse. 10 down, 15 to go. I am determined to make it to all 25 days this year.

## The 25 Days of Psychological Damage
To keep me motivated, I am going to write about my experiences with each language and how the design of the language affected my solution to the problem.

### Day 1: C++
`C++` isn't _ever_ my first choice for anything, nor is it my second, or third. In fact, I have a seemingly illogical distaste for the language, despite my endless love for `C`.

`C++` itself is a well provisioned "modern version" of `C`. You can even use `C` within the language directly.

An odd bit I noticed while working on this was [cppreference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/) now has ads? That's a shame...

Regardless, the language lended itself greatly to finding the solutions. We can leverage the rich collection of data structures in the standard library to solve this problem.

    :::c++
    // we can declare variables in one line like this
    int i, token, part1 = 0, part2 = 0;

    // ... after some file handling ...

    // sorting in place is nice
    std::sort(ls.begin(), ls.end());
    std::sort(rs.begin(), rs.end());

    // sets are easy to use in C++
    for (i = 0; i < ls.size(); i++) {
        // counts is a hash set
        // counts.count() tells us if the entry exists
        // in the set
        if (counts.count(rs[i]) == 0) 
            counts[rs[i]] = 1;
        else
            counts[rs[i]]++;
        part1 += abs(ls[i] - rs[i]); 
    }

The syntax is classic `C` if you want. Proper `C++` tends to be more wordy with namespaces and templating being common examples of noisier syntax. 

All in all, positive experience. I would recomend this language for most applications.

### Day 2: Lua
Ah, `Lua`. This is a nice scripting language in my opinion. Most will recognize this immediately from a popular game called `Roblox`, where the game engine leverages `Lua` for logic. Others might recognize this as a popular configuration language of choice for many open source projects. [NeoVim](https://neovim.io/) comes to mind, as does [AwesomeWM](https://awesomewm.org/). 

Solving these challenges were trivial. `Lua` provides just enough in the way of their dynamic array/dictionary structure.

    :::lua
    -- O(n * (m - 1)) ... yikes
    -- luckily m is usually small
    for i in pairs(levels) do
        -- test a new levels array with the current index removed
        local levels_copy = { table.unpack(levels) }
        table.remove(levels_copy, i)

        if checkLevels(levels_copy) then
            part2 = part2 + 1
            break -- as soon as we find a valid levels table, break
        end
    end

Here we've encountered one of the upsides of Advent of Code. Our algorithms can be as unoptimized as humanly possible, but as long as it produces the correct output, we get the full points. I am not really concerned with finding better logic as this gives me what I need.

### Day 3: Go

Tomorrow I will write about `Go`.

You can find the GitHub repository at [https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2024](https://github.com/Barkerprooks/aoc2024)