# Transience

I think I want to do away with the whole `Day: ${number}` format I've been doing so far with 
the titles. It's _my_ blog, I'll do what I want... y'know? 

_~Only two days in and he's already changing things~_ 

Don't worry. Nothing on this website is truely permenant. Not with me in the drivers seat. 

If you're coming from the [previous post](/blog/date/250225), don't worry. I got enough sleep last night. 

I was supposed to get up early and work out this morning but I was too cozy in bed to do anything at 6am.

I'm going to try and keep my hands off of these posts after I write them as much as possible. Maybe here or
there I'll fix typos, grammar mistakes, etc. 

For the most part I want these to serve as a sort of public
journal. Something I can come back to and see my state of mind at the time encapsulated as a short article. 

Something I've noticed while writing this is how much my mood has changed as different songs show up
in my shuffled playlist. I've rewritten this post several times now because I don't feel it acurately
reflects me.

That's something I do a lot, even with texting people. I will draft a message. Re-draft. 
Final draft, maybe if she's cute I'll get an editor involved (that's a joke). 

Is that sociopathic? I don't know. I want to show my true self, but sometimes I feel like he needs to
be edited for reality. 

I cringe a lot at the things I write. I feel like I sound like a moron sometimes. Writing things that
just _sound_ deep and introspective because I want people to think I'm smart. 

I shouldn't care I guess. These are my actual thoughts and opinions. 

You wouldn't be here if you didn't want to hear them anyway.