# Day 2: Hyper focus

I spent until 3:40am last night working on this. Making sure the simple blog system I'm
writing makes sense. 

When I got home from work, the first thing I did was go to my room and boot up my workstation
to make sure eveything is good enough to put on the internet.

If you're reading this, it means I got it to that point. 

I like the fact that I can sit here for hours at a time and really work on something. Trying
to make it as good as I possibly can. 

I feel like I'm missing out on things sometimes. I spend a lot of time doing things and
building things and making things good because ultimately I crave the attention of
others. I want them to think I'm so cool. I'm so smart. I'm so unique. Maybe if I can do
things to be admired, people will just admire me.

Everyone is smart, cool and unique in their own ways I think. I think any reasonable
human can recognize that In people if they try. I shouldn't care so much. I should just
build things because I like to build things right? 

I mean... I do. I love building things. I love the satisfaction of seeing the fruits of
my labor culminate into something... admirable. It's addicting.

So. 

Here I am again. 

Working on this website. A place where I can show anonymous strangers
all the things I'm building. All the things I'm thinking about. All the sweat I've put
into my downtime.

Hopefully someone finds something admirable about the work I've done. 

Until I burn out, lose interest, become nihilistic and not touch any of this for the next month or so...